# NFL-Data-Analysis

In this project, I developed a model to predict NFL teams' wins and losses during the regular season given team data for every game. First, I used the requests package to scrape data off of the Pro Football Reference site for the 2021-22 regular season. I used pandas to format the relevant data I needed and converted the data into a csv file. Then, I replaced W with 1 and L/T with 0 to quantify our results. I used a scaler to standardize the different stats I scraped and then incorporated the machine learning model. Using a logistic regression model with 50% testing data and 50% training data, I achieved an 82.8% accuracy (that is, the model predicted the results of 82.8% of the 2021-22 regular season games correctly). To improve accuracy, I found the optimal penalty value (regularization penalty for having too many variables) and c-value (applying a penalty to increasing the magnitude of parameter values so that overfitting is reduced). I found that the peak model performance of 84.6% occurred at a penalty value of 11 andd c-value of 0.1. Now using these parameters in the logistic regression model, I tested out different test data percentages to optimize the model. I found that allocating 25% of the data to testing achieved the highest accuracy of 88.8%. So for the final model, I graphed feature importance and concluded that turnovers forced on defense, turnovers on offense, total yards allowed, and total yards gained were the most significant indicators for a team winning or losing that game. Lastly, to use this model in other years besides 2021-2022, I created a helper function using BeautifulSoup to parse the data on Pro Football Reference's website and return a dataframe of that team's results in that particular year. To run the model, input a team name and a year in cell 16 and run the program to determine the model's prediction for all the regular season games that team played during that year! Hope you enjoy!
